the war on Gaza now and the Israeli
military has released a group of
Palestinians who were detained during
raids on alifa Hospital in Gaza City
they're having medical checks at Al AXA
and NASA hospitals among those released
is a director of alifa Hospital Muhammad
Abu salamia he was detained in November
while taking part in a United Nations
mission to evacuate patients from the
medical complex Abu salamia described
conditions as tragic because of a lack
of food and drink in Israeli prisons
all the Palestinian detainees are
suffering I left them in a very dire
condition my message is that their issue
must be part of any negotiations until
all the Palestinian detainees are
released al-shifa hospital will be
rebuilt and it will be once again a
beacon of health care for all the
Palestinians not only gazin I will
resume my duties as soon as it is
feasible let's bring in hindal hudar now
live for us in daral central Gaza hind
the director of alifa Hospital one of
several Palestinians released by Israel
can you bring us up to date with uh what
we've heard about their conditions and
uh what led to this release the
circumstances uh surrounding this
release well Dr Muhammad Abu is one of
55 Palestinian prisoners who were
released earlier today uh we have been
seeing all of the prisoners uh their FA
P es look different their features look
different they lost a lot of weight and
Dr Muhammad ABIA already mentioned that
the health situation the conditions in
uh the prisons are are terrifying they
there's lack of food there's lack of
water and there's also lack of medical
treatment for example Dr Muhammad Abu
was
detained and the Palestinians here
believe that he was kidnapped on the
netar checkpoint while he was evacuating
from the Northern parts of Gaza to the
south after the Israeli
forces issued those orders to
Palestinians to evacuate other
Palestinians who were released today
were arrested and detained in different
parts in the Northern parts of Gaza and
some families said that those uh
Palestinians were kidnapped where
Palestinian families did not know
anything about those Palestinians who
were uh detained and released earlier
today according to Dr Muhammad Abu he
says that there are hundreds and
thousands of other Palestinian prisoners
that are still in those Israeli jails
they're witnessing horrific uh uh very
terrifying and there suffering from the
Israeli prisons where there is lack of
food water and medicine and he also
mentioned that some Palestinians died
during the integration uh and process
and and hind what's the latest uh
are on the ground there the Israeli
attacks continue across the Gaza Strip
and the ground invasion of suaya in Gaza
City that District in Gaza City also
continues bring us up to speed with what
you know is happening right
now well let's start in the middle area
where there was intense artillery
shelling in the Eastern Parts ofah
moving to a the ground Invasion there
continues for the fifth consecutive day
we're talking about a very densely
populated area where some people were
able to evacuate but some people stayed
and were unable to leave and they were
trapped in their houses we're talking
about people who are injured and Medical
Teams could not reach them there has
been no water no food for 5 days and the
intensivity of the air strikes continue
Palestinians surrounding Shia are
reporting that the artillery shelling
did not stop strikes did not stop and
also the Israeli forces are blowing up a
complete residential area it's
very sad to see this happen again in sh
where in the 2014 War the same exact
area witnessed the same exact demolish
violence and this is the continuous
cycle uh uh of the systematic uh actions
against the Palestinians by the Israeli
forces H thank you very much for the
update that's Al jaz's hind Al HUD live
there in De Bala Central Gaza let's
discuss these latest developments now
with Mansour Schuman who's a Palestinian
journalist and humanitarian who
witnessed the war in Rafa and KH Unis
joining us here on the set thank you
manour for being with us uh let's start
with the release of uh the director of
alifa hospital and several others 55
Palestinians released by Israeli forces
we heard the director talk about the
conditions that they were in in these
Israeli prisons and what they suffered
obviously this is not just a one-off
incident the conditions that these
Palestinian prisoners uh are faced with
in in these Israeli prisons what more
can you tell us about this definitely
there are thousands of more like Dr
Muhammad Abu who had been detained in
the wrongful way over the last few
months um as you heard from Dr Muhammad
they are going through very terrible
conditions both mentally and physically
they're not being fed the proper food or
water they're being tortured
and what they're going through is Hell
on Earth right now similar to how the
international governments and
communities and organizations put
pressure on the Israeli government to
free Dr Muhammad Abu we call upon them
to also work towards freeing the
thousands of other detainees that are in
those detainment centers right now what
is Israel's justification for arresting
the director of alifa hospital he was
arrested during a humanitarian Mission
with with the un uh staff that were in
Gaza how do they justify this arrest um
they haven't I don't think they have
released anything official in terms of a
statement but since his detainment in
November we haven't heard back from the
Israeli government on why they do what
they do to the medical staff to the
administrators to the doctors the nurses
um I'm sure you've heard about the
atrocities that they have done to
hospitals in the north the Central and
the southern regions
um it seems that they they've been given
the green light to do whatever they want
in Gaza both to uh residential
commercial and medical facilities um I
just want to point out that in the eyes
of the Palestinians and the free people
around the world they all see Dr
Muhammad Abu as a real hero on the
ground he could have left a shifa
hospital a very long time ago and joined
the many um uh refugees in the South but
he was determined to St to stay in a shi
hospital and to continue direct the work
here there and not only that also as
someone who I have been neighbors with
who lives 500 meters away from me I know
him personally and I know that for a
fact that he would like to return back
on the top of his work as soon as
possible this shows you the
determination and the resilience of the
Palestinian people in general especially
their leadership and the people who are
in Authority yeah uh we talked about uh
with hind the attacks continuing across
Gaza and there's intense fighting right
now in the Gaza uh City District of sua
with civilians trapped there reportedly
Israel has said it wants to destroy
Hamas tunnel tunnels which are still in
Shaya they say although this is an area
which they previously declared that
they' cleared completely and now they're
back can you tell us more about the this
District of Gaza City it's significant
and you know the the civilians who are
trapped there what sort of uh situation
are they enduring right
now the translation of it in Arabic is
the neighborhood of the brave people so
historically was was a place where
people were resilient and people were
able to remain strong and stay in their
land despite any kind of offense against
them historically so um I think that um
for many many decades that neighborhood
has always been a place where the
Israeli forces fear and I'm also part of
many WhatsApp groups many of who have
families and relatives in sh they're
saying that their civilian families are
determined to stay on their land there
they do not want to leave
they believe that it is time for them to
continue to stay where they are they
don't want to be forced to be refugees
and they don't want they've seen what
happened to many thousands of others of
people who left their lands and what
happened to them
and they want to stay where they are I
think that's what the Israelis are
trying to they're trying to drive the
people out of the North they're trying
to push them to the South and to other
areas maybe because they want to control
the North in the near future I'm not
sure but it's all it's been the same um
it's been the same uh clip that we've
all seen every time they withdraw from a
residence or an area in North they come
back to it they've done that to a shiff
hospital three times they've done that
to many neighborhoods in the North many
times and we're seeing it again happen
to our people there so we hope that the
International Community will put
pressure on the Israelis to stop this as
soon as possible and to keep our
civilians safe on the ground manour
Shuman thank you very much for talking
to us about this thank you thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from aler